# Active Directory Cleanup and Level Set for Windows 10 Computers 21-03-2023

  Meeting started: 3/21/2023, 10:58:48 AM
  Duration: 73 minutes
  Participants: Abdullah Ollivierre, Darren Walker

  [View original transcript](https://app.tactiq.io/api/2/u/m/r/X39xYVmUKJrLd71pDktC?o=txt)

  

  
  
  
    ## Highlights

    > 04:49 Abdullah Ollivierre: And and of course we have we have automated scripts for that. So really the goal is you know the intention is you don't you guys don't have to go in and manually clean up devices because we can automate all of that for you, but it's more so.
> 13:27 Abdullah Ollivierre: In one of those packages for Microsoft is 5 like business premium or you can buy into it as a standalone license. Uh, it just just just into license and then assign that license to to those specific users and that way you don't now you can manage them through into and as opposed to group policy in WSS.
> 17:28 Abdullah Ollivierre: To manage. So I'm just gonna give it a bogus name here called the test, and here you can manage the end user experience. And when I see the end user experience, I'm referring to those. To those notifications that you get on the right hand side in your notification center so you know when you see when you see, you know, here's a new Windows update for you or something like that. Actually, let's let's go here. No container windows. Updates. They call them the toast toast notifications. So you're you're you're basically managing. This right here.
> 18:03 Abdullah Ollivierre: Your organization requires your advice to restart in in number of days, so this right here pick a time restart tonight, restart now those end user experiences with Windows Update for business. It is what you're managing right here. It's basically you're saying I'm gonna have an update ring for example. I'm going to have a pilot update ring for my IT people.
> 18:54 Abdullah Ollivierre: Deferral of seven days meaning. After the update is released from Microsoft for seven days, then offer it or make it mandatory for those users right here essentially to basically apply and install the update and restart the computer to apply the update. And so in here you're essentially you're managing right there, the user experience for how it's gonna, how are you going to configure the automatic update? When is the deadline for the updates and how long?
> 25:46 Abdullah Ollivierre: No, that's a good question. Yeah. So if you just want to get the standalone Intune license, one of the things that you will not get is the identity side, the conditional access. That's a very important feature in my opinion, because this.
> 28:26 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. So just, just going back, I think I think my recommendation is to start looking at because you know we the end, the end goal here is we would like to know.
> 29:29 Darren Walker: So those are not connected to the domain. In past former five months for sure. Since November 7th go live date so.
> 29:41 Darren Walker: But they are on the domain they are over here. So if it if I need to replace with another device I can do that. But the issue is. Can we at least do something that we can create a policy that it is forcing the device that are currently on the domain they are connected to the Internet and everything forced pushed the policy. They don't have to do anything. It is forced push and force installed.
> 32:21 Abdullah Ollivierre: So you can. Yeah. So I know. I know. Because sometimes when I send these reports to to customers, they look at the report and they like Abdul. It's all grouped together. I I need the source data. I need the. I need to go back to the source. So if you need the source of those summary summary views, so actually you can delete that you can double click on any one of these summarized groupings here and it will take you back to the source data for those specific ones.
> 47:08 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly. But as I said, you know the user cleanup, it's important, but it's not a requirement for the WSUS and the group policy. What I mean, generally speaking, the clean up is not an absolute requirement, but it's highly recommended that we clean up as much as we can, both specifically stale devices in before we start level set all our computers which is our desired state of the latest version of Windows 10.
> 53:53 Darren Walker: Yes, I know that is the issue.
> 54:41 Darren Walker: And so the the issue. The we don't have anything.
> 57:03 Abdullah Ollivierre: Gotcha. Gotcha. OK. And with this policy right here, we're also configuring the quality update feature, update deadlines and grace periods as you saw earlier with Microsoft Intune. So this is a similar similar experience here where we're basically controlling the deadline for the update, meaning that's it. You have it within three days you must. This is your deadline, right? This you must or or in this case for you. It's zero days, so meaning it's it's immediate.
> 58:43 Abdullah Ollivierre: So this this either option one, option two if you wanna really expedite those security patching and security updates. So those computers like the feature update is not. As urgent, it's important, but it's not as urgent as the quality update. The quality update is much more urgent than the feature update feature update does include security updates as well. Executive features, I would say, but it's more features than critical patching.
> 01:04:50 Abdullah Ollivierre: You can you can definitely manage that. Absolutely. Absolutely. She's take a look at the schedule. So it's the synchronization schedule is automatic and synchronization per day. So does one sync per day. From Microsoft update so so it basically your WSS server will check with Microsoft update servers at least once at least once a day. Up to one once, once a day. So basically every day it will sync automatically at least once with the with with the with the windows with the Microsoft update servers and so from here you can. I check you have your KDH workstations right there. And. Those are the updates. Updates needed six. Most likely this one here is. For the most part, you have Windows 10. Uh Pro, which is which is important, of course, all updates.
> 01:08:04 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, exactly. Once, once you're caught up and you have these these regular monthly or quarterly whatever. Audits and reviews on the on the environment. But then, you know, going back to here, you can troubleshoot connection issues, synchronization issues. Umm. Let's see here. Anything unapproved approved, declined. And then according to this you have 121. So it's different numbers and different places. It's not, you know. You know, it's not. It's not a systematic or it's not a bug in the system that is reporting, you know, inconsistent numbers are different numbers. It's just the fact that. The computer, you know, it's just due to the different. Different statuses, right? It's just the where where the computer is it's it's but but the numbers are.
> 01:10:23 Darren Walker: Yes, but the issue with the servers is if we get a some updates that might break. Few things right with the servers.

  ## Transcript

  00:00 Abdullah Ollivierre: Hello and.
00:02 Darren Walker: Hello.
00:02 Abdullah Ollivierre: Hey, how's it going?
00:03 Darren Walker: Are you? Awesome. Awesome. I got he. Man with me here. What we share an office, just so you know.
00:11 Abdullah Ollivierre: Nice. Yeah. Cubicle to cubicle right?
00:16 Darren Walker: No, not even a cubicle, just a.
00:20 Abdullah Ollivierre: Just. Yeah, at desk and two chairs.
00:25 Darren Walker: Basically, yeah, yeah, no. You have two disk and two chairs, but. Yep.
00:30 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah.
00:33 Darren Walker: So. How? How? Ohh by the way, the Philips guy. He sent me a text. He's running late. He'll be here around 12:31. O'clock so. Just give me FYI. Tweet. So what's on the agenda this time with you? I see Active Directory clean up and level setting for Windows 10.
01:01 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. Yeah. First of all, you know. Welcome and thank you. Of course, for for being on the call. Really, for today, I don't know if you if you got a chance to just go go over my.
01:16 Darren Walker: Yeah, we did.
01:18 Abdullah Ollivierre: My my e-mail from yeah from Wednesday. Perfect. Sorry, I was just getting another call there. Sorry about that. Yeah, really. Just following up on our recent discussion about the updates for Windows 10 computers at at the hospital. I I did compile a detailed report on the Active Directory environment there. Now, as I mentioned, while it's not mandatory, it is highly recommended that we clean up the ad on Prem environment. But specifically focusing on stale devices. Ideally of course, we can clean up stale users as well.
01:56 Abdullah Ollivierre: But but but I did. If we can do that before we level set all client machines to latest latest you know latest Windows 10 latest version of Windows 10. Now as of now the latest version is. AT22H2. Which translates to a 19045 is the build number and that's the latest servicing channel with with GA and and I see from.
02:22 Darren Walker: Sorry, I've delusional. Is that Microsoft like final update or is there other updates after that?
02:27 Abdullah Ollivierre: The the the latest feature update for Windows 10 is is 2022 H 2 correct? That's the.
02:34 Darren Walker: Ohh that's latest song OK.
02:34 Abdullah Ollivierre: That's the that's the latest one, right? Unless of course. You have some devices that are. I noticed that some I think we're on Windows 11, so obviously, but but those are.
02:47 Darren Walker: No, we don't have any Windows 11 and moment not yet. Thank a lot.
02:51 Abdullah Ollivierre: OK. Uh, yeah, actually me one second here. Pull this report over here. Uh, yeah. Did I see anything that were? Yeah, maybe that was a different environment. Never mind. Yeah. No, I don't see anyone. Just.
03:07 Darren Walker: I think there was one Windows 11 there, but it was a test machine and we. Send it back.
03:14 Abdullah Ollivierre: The test machine. OK, got it. Got it. So really, yeah, maybe I can. I can also hear share my screen as well.
03:24 Darren Walker: Yes, please.
03:26 Abdullah Ollivierre: 2nd. Uh.
03:28 Darren Walker: Can you show us how did you compile that report? From where? Where did you compile that report?
03:32 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. Yeah. No, that's that's a great question. You much, let me actually show you here. I just gonna share my screen over and.
03:42 Darren Walker: He does have access to. So yeah. Yeah. So OK.
03:48 Abdullah Ollivierre: Share share screen. And that would be.
03:56 Darren Walker: I'm sorry. That's true, right?
04:02 Abdullah Ollivierre: Screen 2. Uh, see here. Let me know if you guys can see my screen.
04:14 Darren Walker: Yes, we can.
04:16 Abdullah Ollivierre: OK, perfect. I don't. So I have the the windows. When the server updates services, yeah the the when the server yeah update service is right there and and I'm not sure if you guys been here before or or pulled any reports but there are some some number of useful reports here. Now to answer your question on how did I got that report in the 1st place. So what I did I went over here on the domain controller.
04:49 Darren Walker: Yeah.
04:49 Abdullah Ollivierre: And and of course we have we have automated scripts for that. So really the goal is you know the intention is you don't you guys don't have to go in and manually clean up devices because we can automate all of that for you, but it's more so.
05:07 Abdullah Ollivierre: You know, reviewing the report and and just give us the the go ahead and the green lights say, hey Abdullah, I need all these you know. And number of devices that are that have not logged in in in in X number of days to be disabled or the other way around you so either highlight the active computers and then we can let the script disable everything else or highlight the inactive ones and then basically let the script disable those and exclude everything else so we can do it either way. If you know the active ones great, we can exclude the inactive ones.
05:44 Abdullah Ollivierre: Or sorry hit just the inactive ones and some of those or or or the other way. Uh, so if we log in here on Nova Networks on the domain admin here. Yeah, I think that's the one perfect. So what I did, I came over here on the Active Directory domain controller. Uh, do you see 01? And I generated that report based on. Based on the last logon timestamp, now something to keep in mind in Active Directory. Interestingly enough, there are two.
06:21 Abdullah Ollivierre: Log last log on time stamps and and if you ask me why I I have no idea why they have two different ones that report two different values, but but what we do usually is that when we generate the report, we look at whatever whichever is the most recent out of the tool for each computer and then we take that.
06:43 Abdullah Ollivierre: So based on whatever the most recent out of these two different attributes of of the last logon timestamp. Uh, we look at whatever the most recent and then and then essentially we we we we we include that in the report now I can have the report over on my screen over here. So this report is based on. It's coming directly from from your domain controllers, DC-1 and DC CO2. And So what? What I.
07:10 Darren Walker: The last logon time means is it on the domain? I mean in the carriage environment itself. For the laptops that are outside KDH and does those count as well?
07:22 Abdullah Ollivierre: So yeah, I know that's a great question actually meant. So basically the the the answer your question, so be the computers on the domain. So any any computer that is joined to the domain and is reporting to the domain controller, DC-1 or DC, CO2 will show up in this report. Now if those computers are not joined to the domain, they're outside of the domain, then they will not show up in this report.
07:45 Darren Walker: No, they are joined to the domain, but they are working from home so they can. They are not connected to the Ethernet or VPN inside the hospital. They are. They're on their private. Woman Internet. So will those be reported as well or not?
07:58 Abdullah Ollivierre: So that's, that's actually a good question. We can we can look at some samples as well, but my understanding is if those computers are are working remotely like say they're working from home and they're you know they're not. They're not communicating with the domain controller as say often like maybe you know at least once a day or once a week, or whatever the case may be, then that last logon timestamp may not be as accurate for those computers, because obviously if these computers are not routing their connection through a VPN, then they're not establishing any line of sight to the domain controller. And for that, of course, the domain controller will not know will not report accurately when was the last, like the domain controller would not up until.
08:40 Abdullah Ollivierre: The last time it saw that computer coming to the domain control.
08:43 Darren Walker: Yeah, yeah. So if there's no handshake.
08:45 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. The laptop will will. Obviously it's functional, but. Yeah.
08:51 Darren Walker: So there are few users that don't connect to VPN after epic, they don't need to connect to VPN if they if they don't need access to gate Dr. They don't connect with to VPN right there. Everything else is alright and then everything in the background site. Usually there are few people who, OK, for example, Lynn has never been back since. Yeah, code Gray, not even code Gray since epic. COVID. Yeah. Yeah, that's true. Richard has not been an on site for since 4.
09:21 Abdullah Ollivierre: And and and and for those. What I would recommend for those ones that are not needing to connect to the VPN, those few few few handful devices.
09:31 Darren Walker: Yeah.
09:31 Abdullah Ollivierre: If you look, if you look here, I'm. I'm sure you guys are familiar with this Windows Update in the settings menu here. So there are two options here. When you're when your computer is domain joined and and and managed by group policy and WSS, there's the your standard check for updates button and there's a little option right below that called. Check online for updates from Microsoft update.
09:52 Abdullah Ollivierre: This right here is what those users that are not connected to VPN working remotely from home outside of the KDH network. They need to click on this if this option. So there are two options here. So option one and option two option one if that is grayed out or for some reason that is reporting an error if it's not working or whatever the case may be, I would advise them to use this second option right here.
10:16 Darren Walker: So my point the my point was because if we are creating a script to remove all the machines from the domain or delete the machine or disable them from the domain.
10:25 Abdullah Ollivierre: Mm-hmm.
10:25 Darren Walker: And if they're not connected to the domain since past two years and they're working from home, so we'll be disabling them from the domain, right?
10:35 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly. If they don't, well, he. And here's the thing, right. It's it it it's it's a it's an organization decision at the end of the day, right. It's up to you to decide. Say, you know, we need to disable. But I think from a security and from a performance point of view, it is best practice to review those reports quarterly like every three months and say hey, those devices have not reported in the last 90 days or 180 days. May as well may as well just disable them, right.
11:02 Darren Walker: Or or we have a policy where if you are working remotely, you must log in via VPN at least once a month. So we can have a long change. Yeah, yeah.
11:11 Abdullah Ollivierre: There you go. There you go. There you go. Yeah. If if you're working remotely and and and to basically renew that trust, trust, trust handshake with the domain controller, at least log in once every 30 days. Just just.
11:21 Darren Walker: They did at the museum? Yes. So what happened to these devices? What will happen to these devices? That, uh well, domain.
11:30 Abdullah Ollivierre: Now, now let me let me let me let let me ask you this. Do you guys have a Microsoft 365 in place right now? Sorry I'm not very familiar with with your with your Office 365 environment.
11:41 Darren Walker: We don't, we don't administer it. It's done by TH. We have no administration. Yeah, it is not connected to our domain anyways, so.
11:49 Abdullah Ollivierre: Gotcha. Gotcha. OK, So what, what I would recommend for those devices that are not connecting to VPN that are outside of the hospital. Another alternative option which is the modern option of where Microsoft is headed nowadays it's use Microsoft Intune mobile device management in order to manage Windows updates for business on those computers. That way you can have a centralized cloud based vehicle to deliver those policies.
12:20 Abdullah Ollivierre: Those machines are not connecting on the VPN via Microsoft Intune, so if if you guys have any Microsoft Intune licensing or planning on maybe purchasing few licenses for those specific odd devices here and there that are outside the network, then that would be a viable solution for you to consider Microsoft into.
12:40 Darren Walker: That's a license key, muffler. What's a license schema for the Intune is based just about to ask. Yeah, it's based on a per PC or or.
12:46 Abdullah Ollivierre: It's so so both licensing schemes exist per user and per device. However, the per device is very rare. I have very rarely seen. A organizations using the per device. It's usually it's like 99% of the time you'll see the per user licensing scheme, but both both licensing scheme exists, but the per user is the most popular and most efficient. So you would basically license those in Office 365 per user. So for example if you have John, Sarah, Amanda and so on, you would buy a license for each one of them. Now as far as licensing for Intune, you can either have an Intune license bundled up in.
13:27 Abdullah Ollivierre: In one of those packages for Microsoft is 5 like business premium or you can buy into it as a standalone license. Uh, it just just just into license and then assign that license to to those specific users and that way you don't now you can manage them through into and as opposed to group policy in WSS.
13:45 Darren Walker: Yeah. OK. Yes, good. Thank you. Intune is also used for the Mac devices because they cannot connect to the domain in that way, right? That's why Intune is used in those devices to please be sort of part of domain in a way. So you log in right now to a front end with Intune. Uh, on my Mac? No, I mean just generally 2. Can you do have an administration we right now or we don't have no. OK.
14:11 Abdullah Ollivierre: So no admin to the intern whatsoever. OK, so that's that might be something that we can we can have on the radar at some point for for you guys maybe to explore, right. And if you guys need any bouncing ideas or need any guidance on that please let me know. But just to kind of here, I have a sandbox environment. Just give you a little bit of a I'm not sure if you've seen the the management portal before, but. For for the for the cloud, the cloud environment, just turn off here. There we go. Uh, you're able guys to see this portal? Here's our devices.
14:43 Abdullah Ollivierre: Right there is here where we manage the different platform is devices Windows, iOS, Mac, Android, Chrome and more. Most recently I would say Linux and Chrome are are the two recent additions to this to this catalog. Yeah for platform support, but obviously Windows and Mac are Windows obviously would be given its Microsoft would be the most popular platform and then iOS Mac OS.
15:10 Darren Walker: A question so Intune can manage uh MDM as well, right? Mobile devices as well cell phones.
15:15 Abdullah Ollivierre: That's that's exactly right. So as you can see on the left side here, I mentioned you can manage iOS, iPad OS, you can also manage Android OS and Intune is exactly that. It's like you said it's a mobile device management solution that allows you think of it like this modern vehicle to deliver applications and policies to your devices. So in the back in time.
15:40 Abdullah Ollivierre: Uh, you know, back then, you know, back in the day, I guess we used to manage, you know, our computers within the network using group policies and SCCM and WDS US Now instead. Organizations that are starting in the cloud or hybrid organizations like yourself are seriously looking at Intune as this modern vehicle cloud based vehicle to deliver applications and policies to devices that are not on the domain that are not needing to connect to the VPN anymore. So it's a VPN less approach to management and so from here.
16:15 Darren Walker: Nice seamless. I like that.
16:15 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, it's, it's it's a lovely approach. And so from here in in, obviously you know when you when you. By that per user per per month license of Intune, you expect certain things to to to to, you know, out of the platform. So for example, you know, in in this case you're updates, so the manager Windows updates those three options right here on the left side that I'm hovering over. So the first being the update rings, the feature updates and the quality updates, feature updates is what we're our desired state.
16:47 Abdullah Ollivierre: You know and and and the reason we're having this call in the 1st place is to have the.
16:51 Darren Walker: And Adi's policies by default installed on these intunes? Or we have to configure them?
16:57 Abdullah Ollivierre: So configuring the policy itself is is not done for you out-of-the-box. You have to do it unless you're subscribed to. There's a paid service on top of the Intune license called Microsoft Autopatch, but that's yet another premium add-on from Microsoft. However, if you're just subscribed to the baseline Microsoft Intune subscription per user per month, then you can go to update rings and here where you create a profile.
17:28 Abdullah Ollivierre: To manage. So I'm just gonna give it a bogus name here called the test, and here you can manage the end user experience. And when I see the end user experience, I'm referring to those. To those notifications that you get on the right hand side in your notification center so you know when you see when you see, you know, here's a new Windows update for you or something like that. Actually, let's let's go here. No container windows. Updates. They call them the toast toast notifications. So you're you're you're basically managing. This right here.
18:03 Abdullah Ollivierre: Your organization requires your advice to restart in in number of days, so this right here pick a time restart tonight, restart now those end user experiences with Windows Update for business. It is what you're managing right here. It's basically you're saying I'm gonna have an update ring for example. I'm going to have a pilot update ring for my IT people.
18:24 Abdullah Ollivierre: I to have the Windows updates like feature updates and quality updates to be rolled out to those the group of it people because they're in the pilot group as soon as possible, so I'm gonna have deferrals for zero days, meaning the maturity, the age of that update is immediate, 00 means immediate. So it roll it out immediately to the pilot group and then you can create another update ring, basically a second ring, call it just for the sake of simplicity, call it the everyone else or broad group and then you can have.
18:54 Abdullah Ollivierre: Deferral of seven days meaning. After the update is released from Microsoft for seven days, then offer it or make it mandatory for those users right here essentially to basically apply and install the update and restart the computer to apply the update. And so in here you're essentially you're managing right there, the user experience for how it's gonna, how are you going to configure the automatic update? When is the deadline for the updates and how long?
19:27 Abdullah Ollivierre: Before the update is offered and and and and and made mandatory to those devices right there in the in the different players. So obviously this is a very light touch compared to WSLS is like the fancy rose rice. Solution to manage Windows updates but in Intune today this is how we how we do it through update rings and and there's the other two options for feature updates. This is where you log the devices on a certain measure version of Windows. So for example I'm running on my computer right now. Let's see here Windows 10220219045 which is the latest build as of today from Microsoft or Windows 10 servicing channel.
20:13 Abdullah Ollivierre: Now, if I'm not ready to roll 22H2 to all my my my managed devices, my managed computers I can freeze. I can sort of quote UN quote lock my computers on a certain feature update. So that I can buy more time as an IT professional as as an IT group I can buy myself more time to do further testing on on the newest version of the Windows 10 before I roll it out to everybody else. So right here I can create a profile.
20:44 Abdullah Ollivierre: Sort of buy myself a little more time. You can just give it a bogus name here and right there. Feature updated deploy. I can select which feature update, which means your version of Windows I need to lock. So for example some organizations they're not ready to roll out or to even offer users Windows 11. So I don't want my users to be able to upgrade their computers to Windows 11 so I can go right here and freeze or sort of quote UN quote lock their devices so they will never be offered the Windows 11 upgrade on their computers.
21:14 Darren Walker: And and and. How do you specify that freeze just?
21:18 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, I so I can select it right here from the drop down menu. I can say, yeah, I I can. I can say which which measure version of Windows I want to freeze these computers on SQL they will never be offered any. Now keep in mind if they were already on a newer version from what you've selected here.
21:36 Darren Walker: Right.
21:41 Abdullah Ollivierre: If they're already running Windows 11, they're not going to go back to Windows, Windows 10. However, if they're already, if they're running a equal or less than your desired state, then of course it will. That computer will stay.
21:58 Darren Walker: And is there any way for the end user story? Is there any way for the end user to override that that freeze no.
22:02 Abdullah Ollivierre: If they get the policy, no, unless unless they have an admin on their computer.
22:07 Darren Walker: All right, cool.
22:09 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, if if you have, if you have a local admin on your machine, you can do pretty much anything.
22:12 Darren Walker: Yeah.
22:13 Abdullah Ollivierre: Right. Yeah, of course. It never, never give. Unless, of course, you know, if you have a specific, you know, group of people that you give admin to, obviously we we expect them to be responsible about what they do with their admin. But yeah, unless unless they have admin, if they have a standard user, any policies you would push through group policy or through this modern vehicle called Microsoft Intune, it's not, it's not possible to override that. And that's and that's the power of this essentially it gives you the IT pretty much.
22:44 Abdullah Ollivierre: All, all the control that you want. The the the last thing here in in this year is quality updates. Quality updates is where where you have those expedited cycle for essentially for you know for security updates and bug fixes and things like that. Yeah, that's kind of sort of a quick overview of how this back, you know the the back end of Microsoft Intune, this new modern cloud based environment looks like.
23:12 Darren Walker: It's $28.00 a month for user 20 a month. Wow, I don't think so. 300 bucks a year. OK.
23:21 Abdullah Ollivierre: How sorry. What was that? What was that? What was that pricing?
23:25 Darren Walker: $28.00 per user per month.
23:27 Abdullah Ollivierre: That's. Yeah, that's where the that's where the business premium and my recommendation is to get the business premium because it's the the best value for your buck. However, you can buy just the Microsoft Intune license, let's recommend it to be honest with you. Like for example I, Microsoft, Intune license standalone, if you just wanna buy it by itself.
23:49 Abdullah Ollivierre: That would be. Part of EMS as well, but. I think. That would be somewhere, don't I? Don't don't. Don't. Don't call me on the number, but. But I think around 8:00 or 9 Canadian dollars, a user a month. If you just wanna buy the the standalone license for India.
24:09 Darren Walker: OK.
24:10 Abdullah Ollivierre: So the the this is the EMS E3. Endpoint management Endpoint management is is the when you see the the, the, the the word endpoint management, that's the code word for Intune.
24:21 Darren Walker: Ohh OK.
24:22 Abdullah Ollivierre: Uh, yeah, so mobile app management, MDM and MDM is is is so you can as I said you know you can get into it as part of bundles either the Microsoft 365 business premium, the one you guys just highlighted there $28.00. Plus whatever. Uh applicable taxes per user per month or another bundle is the EMS bundle. It's a little more cost effective bundle, so that's another recommended bundle to look at. Or you can buy the standalone Intune license if you're working with an MSP or channel there for $8.00 user month as well. So you have different options to either get the bundles or the standalone.
24:59 Abdullah Ollivierre: I depending on where you are, my commendations to give that I know the business stream is little more on the. I would say the higher end, but it gives you a lot of other security features that you will find very helpful as you're as you're managing those devices through Microsoft intern because you're end state might not just be Windows updates. I may wanna also roll out compliance policies to these devices and that's where I think that's where the other features in the business premium comes into place. Like these compliance policies. That's your end state is like I wanna make sure that these devices are healthy or unhealthy, are they compliant or in compliant.
25:34 Abdullah Ollivierre: With, with with the, with the company's policies. So.
25:38 Darren Walker: If we just wanted the basic basic endpoint management, they're bucks a month. Well, what functionality don't we get? You know off.
25:46 Abdullah Ollivierre: No, that's a good question. Yeah. So if you just want to get the standalone Intune license, one of the things that you will not get is the identity side, the conditional access. That's a very important feature in my opinion, because this.
26:03 Abdullah Ollivierre: Can can can do not? Can block access. If they don't have their firewall turned on, for example, or if they don't have an antivirus installed on their computer, or if they're antivirus is out of date, so using conditional access policies or depending on which IP they're coming from, so conditional access is very powerful way to control access to your organization's resources and data. Your Office 365. So that's one of the things that you will not get if you just go with the standalone into and license. However you go with the business.
26:35 Darren Walker: But does this include the Office 365 outlook license as well? Or it is just the? Endpoint management and security.
26:45 Abdullah Ollivierre: Good question. So if you go with the Microsoft 365 business premium.
26:49 Darren Walker: We don't, we don't want the business premium because we Office 365 is managed by Auto Hospital. So we cannot have a different. E-mail to myself. That's why the 365. Really doesn't work for us but scheme.
27:07 Abdullah Ollivierre: So the business premium does include Word, Excel and Outlook. If that answers question as well as OneDrive. So you can simply upgrade those existing licenses that you have to business premium without and you won't lose your e-mail or domain or any settings. It's just as simple license upgrade.
27:23 Darren Walker: But we don't have admin access to the Exchange Office 365.
27:28 Abdullah Ollivierre: I see gotcha, but yeah.
27:31 Darren Walker: So that doesn't make any sense.
27:33 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, yeah, I know for sure. And so, so, in, in this case, you know, as I said, depending on your requirements, you know you can you can either buy it as a bundle of that doesn't make sense for your organization. You can also consider buying the standalone license or if you wanna buy the somewhere, like if you wanna go somewhere in between the business premium and the standalone, the EMS, the enterprise Mobility Security package is also another good option to look at because that one.
27:57 Darren Walker: So is there something cheaper than the $8.00 month option?
27:59 Abdullah Ollivierre: I know that for Intune, for, for.
28:02 Darren Walker: In tunes, no, there might be other another MDM solutions personal.
28:06 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, you you would probably want to look at other MDM solutions but but in two and four you know with what it offers for 8/8 ish, $9 Canadian a user a month, I think it's pretty good.
28:17 Darren Walker: Ohk. OK. How are you giving 2 minutes.
28:19 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah.
28:20 Darren Walker: OK, So what can be done for WSS server right now?
28:26 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. So just, just going back, I think I think my recommendation is to start looking at because you know we the end, the end goal here is we would like to know.
28:39 Abdullah Ollivierre: We'd like to know the final count of how many devices that are truly not running the latest version of Windows 10, like as of now, when we look at these computers right here I see a lot of computers. I see a lot of room for cleanup and so if we look at these computers right here, I see at least 171 that are not disabled. So I wanted I wanted to also check with you to see if these numbers make sense to you. If we truly have 171 computers.
29:09 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah.
29:09 Darren Walker: So we do have, we do have the those many computers, but with the epic came in we got so many TH devices that are on TH net sub I mean domain. So we have to take those clinical devices back which is which are on the shelves right now.
29:29 Abdullah Ollivierre: Right.
29:29 Darren Walker: So those are not connected to the domain. In past former five months for sure. Since November 7th go live date so.
29:40 Abdullah Ollivierre: I see.
29:41 Darren Walker: But they are on the domain they are over here. So if it if I need to replace with another device I can do that. But the issue is. Can we at least do something that we can create a policy that it is forcing the device that are currently on the domain they are connected to the Internet and everything forced pushed the policy. They don't have to do anything. It is forced push and force installed.
30:12 Darren Walker: And then rebooted within two days or three days time after the policy I've after the update is installed. Force reboot. If they don't reboot themselves.
30:24 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. Yeah, no, absolutely. So, actually, let's take a look at what you have today.
30:29 Darren Walker: And meanwhile I can I can go through all the devices that we have on the network and we all start disabling the device so I can connect with you and we can delete those devices from the network or disable them or whatever you suggest. We can do that.
30:43 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, no, absolutely. So I'm looking at the. This report here as well, so this is the computers report, not the users report, so reporting on users is different from reporting on computers just to keep that in mind. So within more than 180 days you have 300 and. 56 devices that are listed in Active Directory that have not logged in within.
31:09 Darren Walker: Surveillance set these up, everything.
31:12 Abdullah Ollivierre: More than 180 days. And then obviously you're most used domain controller is your DC-1. And then DCL two is acting as a. You know, as a as as yeah, as as a, as a secondary or a backup essentially. So they're both active right now, of DC-1 is a primary and you know you're looking at this year's ideally what we'd like to do, gentlemen, is, is to clean up as much as we can so that when we're doing these, this upkeep, this ongoing reporting and reviews on your Active Directory domain domain environment.
31:48 Abdullah Ollivierre: Uh, we we get accurate reports and and and and as as as much as possible of of device count that truly needs to be on the latest version of Windows 10. Like based on what I'm looking at here, 22 out of your 171 are already running the latest build which is 2202. So that's fine. So this is good. So actually we can highlight this with green and by the way, I don't know if you know this the report that I sent you you can double click on this number right here in Microsoft Excel.
32:15 Darren Walker: Yeah.
32:16 Abdullah Ollivierre: And it will show you just those 22 computers right here.
32:19 Darren Walker: OK, that I didn't know.
32:21 Abdullah Ollivierre: So you can. Yeah. So I know. I know. Because sometimes when I send these reports to to customers, they look at the report and they like Abdul. It's all grouped together. I I need the source data. I need the. I need to go back to the source. So if you need the source of those summary summary views, so actually you can delete that you can double click on any one of these summarized groupings here and it will take you back to the source data for those specific ones.
32:47 Darren Walker: That's cool. It's so sorry. Abdullah. I have to step out with that Phillips guy for those carts. So I'll let you stay here with you, man, but appreciate your help there.
32:55 Abdullah Ollivierre: No, for sure. Thank you. There. Thank you. Uh, so yeah, really, he managed to, for example. So these ones right here. So right now if you think about it, we have 171. So if we say this 171 minus the 22 that you already have on the latest.
33:15 Darren Walker: Yeah.
33:16 Abdullah Ollivierre: So you have 149 devices that are not patched with the latest Windows 10 version.
33:21 Darren Walker: Yeah, I think it would be approx 49 devices. 100 devices are not there anymore. Might be way older devices or those were replaced and those were still in the domain. Ohh not deleted.
33:38 Abdullah Ollivierre: Gotcha. So that's that's why I meant what that by by cleaning up, right? That's why we need to do some clean up to to get to get a more accurate reflection of true device count before we start tackling. You know, policies and WSS. You know what I mean? So we need to do as as much tidy up as possible. So what I what I what I can do to help. As I said, there's two options. You can either go in on the Active Directory domain controller and clean them up manually one by one. Or if you want to highlight them on the report we can have automated scripts to do the cleanup for you as well. So there are two options you can do that.
34:18 Darren Walker: Uh, uh. What? I was thinking is, can we create a policy that I mentioned that we can push the updates, force push the updates and install them and see within next 15 days which computers have not received the updates? We can disable them.
34:34 Abdullah Ollivierre: Got it. Got it. I see now.
34:36 Darren Walker: Because I don't have the computer names that are on the floor, and to be honest I don't have that much time to go to each office and check what computer is connected to two which didn't. They are used or not.
34:49 Abdullah Ollivierre: Uh-huh
34:54 Darren Walker: It will be much more painful than, but I know all the computers that are connected are connected with the Internet, so if we can push the policy and within next 15 days we can see which computers have not received the policy, we can disable those at A at at one shot.
35:08 Abdullah Ollivierre: I see. OK. That's a good strategy, I think. Yeah. So right here, we can. Let's actually take a look at the. At the so you can see here. I don't know if you if you looked at the WSU S. Reporting or or the management console here before. So we have. Right there, computers needing updates. According to WSU S is 100. So again, this may or may not be exactly accurate, right? Based based on on on on the clean up. Maybe after the cleanup or maybe after we push that policy. But to answer your question, we can definitely create a policy right here. I see there are a number of group policies already in place.
35:52 Darren Walker: Yeah.
35:52 Abdullah Ollivierre: Uh, that are. Uh, configuring other? Settings, but I don't see. I don't see.
36:03 Darren Walker: To this.
36:04 Abdullah Ollivierre: W. WSU S maybe we can take a look at. Maybe those are the ones that are actually, let's look at the right there. Just see a full catalog of your policies. And.
36:20 Darren Walker: I think WSS policy would be.
36:23 Abdullah Ollivierre: Right there.
36:24 Darren Walker: And yeah.
36:25 Abdullah Ollivierre: So we have one for servers and then we have one for workstations. Now our our focus here my based on my understanding is is Windows 10 yeah, Windows 10 client workstations. We're not gonna worry too much about servers today.
36:39 Darren Walker: Yeah.
36:39 Abdullah Ollivierre: We're just gonna focus on, you know, essentially on on, on Windows, Windows, Windows 10 workstations. So actually, let's take a look at here at the settings and just to see what is this policy doing and who is it targeting. So. Right there. So, right there, this policy, it's it's at the computer level and it's configuring automatic updates right there. And it says. Option #4. So there are a number of options you can configure and then you have option #3 here so auto download and notify. And then auto download and schedule. So actually is is what it said to right now. So configure automatic update with option #3 auto download and notify for install. So it's not forcing the install.
37:26 Abdullah Ollivierre: It's it's just automatically downloading the update, but it's not forcing the installation of the update right now, so we can change that if you like.
37:35 Darren Walker: Yes, please.
37:36 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, we can definitely change that. So right here under the workstations policy, actually before we we modify this policy, I'd like to take a look to see what the scope right now it's at the workstations level here. So actually let's take a look at the workstations OU.
37:50 Darren Walker: All the computers are in the workstation or you.
37:54 Abdullah Ollivierre: OK, so right there is what you have. OK, so you can see that some of the olus here are labeled disabled. So my my recommendation as a best practice is. It you know it to avoid targeting disabled devices with group policies because it slows down your group policy replication. So if you have so for example if you have 1000 computer, I'm just throwing a number and then you have say 20% of those.
38:27 Abdullah Ollivierre: You know like like say, 200 of those are disabled and you're pushing your, your, your instructing the domain controller to be pushing policy to those disabled ones as well. It's just gonna cause it's not the best practice, it's just gonna cause performance bottlenecks. You know what I mean? So as much as they can as much as possible, try to clean up this workstations OU and we can help you with that as well by going here. This actually took a look at the so right here this policy is start getting this workstations.
38:57 Abdullah Ollivierre: And and so if we clean up this OU as much as we can, then it's gonna help help, you know, in, in, in, in streamlining the troubleshooting as well and and bringing a more accurate reflection of the device count. And so if we look here. Workstations right now we haven't, like I can see I you can see some of them are already disabled of this, you know, arrow pointing down.
39:20 Darren Walker: Yeah.
39:21 Abdullah Ollivierre: So this is a disabled device. Obviously you can take a look here properties under operating system. This is a Windows 10 machine and let's take a look at the object it's sitting in this OU. Obviously it's not protected from deletions, so we can go ahead and delete it if needed or move it to a separate OU like at minimum. If you don't wanna delete it. If you're not ready to delete the device object, I would say eventually let's just delete them altogether and just let's so that way when we pull these reports every week or every month.
39:53 Abdullah Ollivierre: We get an accurate report of of of true and active devices in the in the in the controller, but I would say at least you're not. Planning or ready to the delete them for now I would say move them outside of this workstation so you so that way this policy is not having to work so hard on on keep trying, retrying, retrying on these disabled device.
40:18 Darren Walker: So can we create a OU mentioning disabled workstations?
40:22 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly. Exactly. So right here we have disabled, can be deleted and disabled checking.
40:27 Darren Walker: Yeah. Can we just merge them and keep it 1 outside? That was station and yeah.
40:35 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. So what I would recommend is in this case, and of course if it's a bulk job, we can, we can we have scripts for that, but we can create a new organizational unit right there at the top level.
40:49 Darren Walker: Yeah.
40:50 Abdullah Ollivierre: And. And we also want to make sure that those you know at the top level, they're not. Work workstations.
41:00 Darren Walker: Don't stations disabled?
41:02 Abdullah Ollivierre: Disabled or or something like that, right? You know right there.
41:08 Darren Walker: So it's working in the server room. So it's working. Why Wi-Fi mean? I think in my thing is not catching the right. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
41:22 Abdullah Ollivierre: And right there, we can move this over here.
41:27 Darren Walker: Yes.
41:28 Abdullah Ollivierre: And then going forward, him and what we can do, you know, as I say, it's a shared responsibility and a collective effort just to make sure that we're. Core you know quarterly at least every three months, we're reviewing the just doing an audit on the on the domain controller and see what is disabled and just move them to this area right here. That way this policy is not working so hard to retry every time on disabled and it's a best practice, right, best practice.
41:55 Darren Walker: Definitely yes, and I'll I'll make sure to delete those workstations from that you OU as well frequently.
42:00 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yes, yes, exactly. Eventually, yes. So once you once you're ready, you say, you know, I know for a fact these devices are disabled and they're never gonna come back to the domain controller, just delete them all together. That way, when we pull this report right here. This number is gonna be more more accurate than. Yeah, exactly that way, because right now you have a lot of devices that are showing, like for example, 356 devices that are showing more than 180 days ago. I bet you a lot of these, maybe 99% of those 356 devices I've probably. Are ready to be deleted.
42:33 Darren Walker: Yeah, definitely.
42:34 Abdullah Ollivierre: You know, because I see some of them are Windows XP like 45 Windows XP machines and multiple Windows Server 2008 machines.
42:42 Darren Walker: Uh, so Windows Server 2008. I think we still have a couple of them on the on the yeah, just a couple of them. But yeah, not all of them. And yeah, we can delete all Windows XP machine for sure.
42:55 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly right. Yeah, that's that's what I thought, too. Right? I'm like, you know why? Why, why? Why do we still have Windows XP machines? Like, for example, do we look here at the OS version? And we see some of these computers already disabled, I guess by by looking at false. So these are already disabled, you've got. 176 that are disabled to just good and then you have all of these 390 that they're not disabled, but some of these are running. If we go by always version. Uh by OS right there. Windows XP right here. So we've got we've got 74 devices.
43:36 Darren Walker: And I don't think so. We have any Windows 7 devices as well in our environment.
43:39 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, you see what I'm saying? So you already have a between Windows 7 and Windows XP. You have 190 computers that we can definitely not only disable, but, but.
43:50 Darren Walker: I'm like can we click on Windows 7 devices please?
43:52 Abdullah Ollivierre: Definitely we can go back to the source data here. Double click on it and now it just drills down to 116 devices for Windows 7, right? And so if I. Look at this here and and I mean obviously you can see the last logon date right there. Some of these are are from 2016. And.
44:13 Darren Walker: One of them is 2023 as well.
44:16 Abdullah Ollivierre: Not. Not a lot, but actually we can filter on that as well. Yeah, for sure. We can do a filter.
44:21 Darren Walker: Which one? Epilepsy W 68. Yeah, we can delete all these off. That's fine. If they, if they are still there, I can read them to the domain.
44:35 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, exactly.
44:37 Darren Walker: And then update them to Windows 10.
44:38 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly, exactly. That's what I mean, right? So I mean, sometimes, you know, sometimes you just you try to be as careful as you can, but sometimes, you know, just disable them. And if somebody complaints, you can fix them later.
44:50 Darren Walker: Yeah, we can disable them and put them on the different OU for sure.
44:54 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly. See, that's what I mean. And this is where.
44:56 Darren Walker: All Windows 7 and Windows XP.
44:57 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly. And that's what I mean, where we can have some automated scripts to do that as well that you can run, you can run you know quarterly you can just go in and just run the script and it will scan your entire Active Directory and I'll say hey man, you've got these whatever Windows 7, Windows XP, blah blah blah. This, this, this you can just clean them up and and remove them.
45:20 Abdullah Ollivierre: And so with that being said, as we're keeping in the upkeep of our 80 environment, as we keep you know as much as we can, if we try to keep it as clean as possible from stale users and stale devices, obviously this conversation is only focused on devices we haven't even discussed stale users yet.
45:39 Darren Walker: Yes. So we don't have many steel users because we do delete the users, we don't disable the users, we usually delete the users from AD.
45:49 Abdullah Ollivierre: All OK. OK, OK.
45:50 Darren Walker: So there might be just handful of them.
45:54 Abdullah Ollivierre: Let's take a look at the user's report here. So I pulled the this is the user report. And I see 305 users.
46:03 Darren Walker: Just give me one second. Sorry.
46:06 Abdullah Ollivierre: No worries.
46:06 Darren Walker: Right. I mean.
46:28 Darren Walker: Yeah, sorry. Go ahead.
46:31 Abdullah Ollivierre: Uh norries. So based on the user report that I'm looking at here, human. So basically we have 305 devices. Sorry, 305 users that have not logged in in the last 180 days. Uh, that that are listed in the 80s, so that's something. But as I said, it's not a, it's not a.
46:47 Darren Walker: So it might be the vendor accounts as well, and the group accounts. Ohh shared users account so I have to check those and delete those shared users because as I mentioned we had our own exchange before and after that we changed to Office 365 with Auto Hospital. So all the shared accounts are gone now. So we have to check those and delete those.
47:08 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly. But as I said, you know the user cleanup, it's important, but it's not a requirement for the WSUS and the group policy. What I mean, generally speaking, the clean up is not an absolute requirement, but it's highly recommended that we clean up as much as we can, both specifically stale devices in before we start level set all our computers which is our desired state of the latest version of Windows 10.
47:36 Darren Walker: Yeah.
47:36 Abdullah Ollivierre: And so that's that is my recommendation and that's what I'd like to, you know, wanted to discuss today with you as well and and yeah and and you know, I'm happy to if you have any questions before we wrap up, I know we went over our time here, so I apologize for that but.
47:52 Abdullah Ollivierre: But but. But yeah, I know this, this this is, you know, I think at best practice to to to consider that we start you know looking at our stale devices and clean them up as much as we can and and more importantly once we identify those stale devices with their manually or through a script and I would I would recommend that we actually we go over here at the domain controller and it moved them outside of the workstations OU and move them in fact.
48:21 Abdullah Ollivierre: Any disabled any any device that we identify as stale and we disable them. Uh at temp temporarily at least move them out outside of the line of sight of any policy. Not just that WSS policy. So we should we should move them to a separate OU, isolate them in a separate OU that is not targeted by any group policy whatsoever. Just.
48:43 Darren Walker: To this whole session disabled is not targeted by anything, right? It might be under the default OU itself, yeah.
48:50 Abdullah Ollivierre: Well, well, it might be targeted, to be honest with you by by these guys right here. Like see all these policies?
48:56 Darren Walker: Yeah, and.
48:58 Abdullah Ollivierre: You have a number of policies right here that are at the at the like. For example, at the TH level. So even even even, by isolating this Oyu right here, it's still being targeted by any policies that are at the cache domain level. Uh, similar similar to the default domain policy right here.
49:21 Darren Walker: Yeah. So can we exclude or is there an option can we exclude?
49:25 Abdullah Ollivierre: You can use security filtering right here, but but that that's that's gonna overcomplicate your environment. You can use the security filtering to filter out that specific to a specific group, but but I think I think eventually my recommendation if you want the the the the the efficient option is to just completely delete this audio altogether once you are ready.
49:50 Darren Walker: Yeah.
49:51 Abdullah Ollivierre: I think I I think yeah. Not not only that will clean up your AD but also will clean up our our our report right here exactly. So that way when you wanna troubleshoot you say OK Abdullah I have this number of devices that are not getting the latest version of Windows 10 I say OK fine let's pull a report and then we can get an exact count that is truly reflective of say OK now we have maybe 20 or 30 or 40 computers whatever the case may be let's go after these and find out.
50:20 Abdullah Ollivierre: What? Why the other fifty computers are getting the policy, but these 20 or 30 or 40 computers are not getting the policy because we know we are pushing the policy to all the workstations, right? Some of them are getting it and some of them that are on the same exact network are not getting it. So there may be something going on on these specific computers then or it may be something up with our domain controller. Maybe something up with our DNS or maybe something up with a WSUS. It could be a multiple different things but but once we have a more.
50:52 Abdullah Ollivierre: Accurate reflective number then we can drill down and say, OK, let's let's focus on these. But right now it's hard to focus because there's a lot of stale devices.
51:01 Darren Walker: Yeah. So, yeah, so can we do Windows 7 and Windows XP to all those? All that disabled for you and create A and make those changes to the policy to install instead of. Download and notify can we download and force update and? Notify the user to reboot the workstation in three days. If not, it will be forced rebooted.
51:29 Abdullah Ollivierre: No, exactly. So actually, let's take a look at. Right here is our policy and is what we have under the WSS workstations policy right there.
51:41 Darren Walker: Yeah.
51:42 Abdullah Ollivierre: And actually, let's edit that policy and just go down to. Are options, so expand. And look at the auto download option under policies. And. It would be under. A windows. Admin templates right there. And then Windows components. And then there's a specific folder for it, Windows updates. And right here is where you find all the Windows Update policies that you have enabled in your environment. Now in your case you have these four enabled under this specific policy. So in your case would be configure automatic updates and you can change this option from option #3. To option to whatever other option you need. So there's 2345 and seven. Option number. For what you're looking for is probably.
52:41 Darren Walker: Phone.
52:41 Abdullah Ollivierre: Just number number. Number four, I think.
52:48 Darren Walker: For right after download and can you install? Yeah.
52:50 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, and schedule the install is what you're looking for. So with option 4. Uh auto download updates and install them on the scheduled when auto selected this at the scheduled install time, Windows will automatically check, download and install updates and that's exactly what you want.
53:06 Darren Walker: Yes, but if for example, if the schedule is at 3:00 AM, and what if they work, station is shut down at the 3:00 AM.
53:16 Abdullah Ollivierre: Exactly. So if some of those workstations are are. There were offline. It will. It will ask the next time the device checks with the domain controller and.
53:30 Darren Walker: And your daughter install.
53:30 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, it will grab the policy and order install, actually I mean the the device has to grab the policy at least the new the new update on the policy at least once, right? And so. But The thing is The thing is with group policies is that it's a one way communication like once you push the group policy, you don't know if it if the device received the policy or not there's.
53:53 Darren Walker: Yes, I know that is the issue.
53:54 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, with with Intune. It's a two way communication channel. So with Intune, once you push the policy then you will know you can report on devices that did receive the policy and apply the policy or not. But with with with traditional classic group policy it's a one way St. you can only push the policy but you can you cannot. You don't get reports back that it worked or not. So that's part of the challenge there as well scheduled install date. So we can have it every day if you want.
54:23 Darren Walker: Yeah, that's fine. I mean it.
54:24 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, but, but if, if if you're concerned about. If you have any concerns about the stability of those latest Windows updates, you know potentially breaking something that is critical in your hospital, you know what I mean. You may wanna consider.
54:41 Darren Walker: And so the the issue. The we don't have anything.
54:47 Abdullah Ollivierre: Critical.
54:48 Darren Walker: That is, uh, specific. On Key DHT network that are that is tied to the Windows Update. So any application.
54:56 Abdullah Ollivierre: I see. So you really, I mean those so so you're pretty confident that those Windows 10 workstations are not running anything too critically?
55:05 Darren Walker: A. I think so, yeah, sort of.
55:07 Abdullah Ollivierre: Gotcha. Gotcha. So so if if if.
55:09 Darren Walker: And we can do second week of month for sure.
55:12 Abdullah Ollivierre: Second, OK, so let's see.
55:14 Darren Walker: First week or second week or whatever you suggest.
55:16 Abdullah Ollivierre: Every OK, so every well, it's gonna be weekly. So for ohh. I see what you're saying. So maybe first week of the month. Instead of serve every week, OK.
55:25 Darren Walker: Telling me, yeah.
55:26 Abdullah Ollivierre: So maybe first week of the month and then scheduled.
55:30 Darren Walker: Every day at 3:00 AM, yes.
55:31 Abdullah Ollivierre: Every day at 3:00 AM. OK, that's good. At least with the 3:00 AM slot, we don't interrupt the users.
55:37 Darren Walker: Yeah.
55:37 Abdullah Ollivierre: You know with.
55:39 Darren Walker: Yeah, definitely.
55:39 Abdullah Ollivierre: We don't want them to hate the Windows Update experience too.
55:42 Darren Walker: Yeah.
55:44 Abdullah Ollivierre: You're like, oh, I just lost all my work.
55:46 Darren Walker: Install updates for other Microsoft products as well, sure.
55:50 Abdullah Ollivierre: Sure. Yeah, we can do that. And then we can hit apply. And so with this as you know devices the way that group policy sync cycle works, the devices check in with group policy every 90 minutes. Uh, so the next in the next expect that in the 90 minutes or so, if those devices are online and assuming assuming that line of communication between the devices and the domain controller is working and there's no issues there at the network level, of course, then within somewhere in the 90 minutes in the random random interval there it will, it will update the policy unless you know you go on that device. Another option manually run gpupdate force.
56:33 Darren Walker: Yeah, definitely.
56:33 Abdullah Ollivierre: To to grab the ball sees, but yeah, I don't. I don't think the computers need to necessarily reboot to get this new policy. I don't think so. That's the case. But I think as a general recommendation, I would say as it advised the users to reboot their computer at least once a week. Just. Yeah. So as in.
56:53 Darren Walker: Yeah, that's what we do. Yeah, we tell the user, but they don't do usually, but we do send in a frequent e-mail at least once a month. Mentioning them to do the reboots.
57:03 Abdullah Ollivierre: Gotcha. Gotcha. OK. And with this policy right here, we're also configuring the quality update feature, update deadlines and grace periods as you saw earlier with Microsoft Intune. So this is a similar similar experience here where we're basically controlling the deadline for the update, meaning that's it. You have it within three days you must. This is your deadline, right? This you must or or in this case for you. It's zero days, so meaning it's it's immediate.
57:28 Darren Walker: Yeah.
57:29 Abdullah Ollivierre: So. So there's there's no, there's no room here.
57:32 Darren Walker: So what happens if the user is not connected to the domain for next three days or when the update launches? I mean, when the update hits the WSS server.
57:41 Abdullah Ollivierre: Mm-hmm.
57:41 Darren Walker: And the user is not connected to the domain or the Internet for next 5 days. Will it do next month or? If the grace period passes.
57:52 Abdullah Ollivierre: So so if you wanna speed up the process, one option you can consider is to ask the users to go here and.
58:00 Darren Walker: And click.
58:00 Abdullah Ollivierre: Quick check for updates if you wanna, if you if you really want to expedite like for example the recently there is a a critical vulnerability for Microsoft Office outlook and I don't know if you heard about it. Yeah and.
58:14 Darren Walker: Yeah, I saw it. Yeah.
58:14 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. So that's the critical vulnerability that needs to be patched as soon as possible. So what we have been advising people is that if you, if you've been waiting for the WSU S or the group policy to come into your computer and you're not getting that update, come here to Windows Update settings menu and click check for updates option one. If that doesn't work for you, if it's grayed out or if it's returning an error, then definitely click this other option right below that check online for updates from Microsoft Update.
58:43 Darren Walker: Yeah.
58:43 Abdullah Ollivierre: So this this either option one, option two if you wanna really expedite those security patching and security updates. So those computers like the feature update is not. As urgent, it's important, but it's not as urgent as the quality update. The quality update is much more urgent than the feature update feature update does include security updates as well. Executive features, I would say, but it's more features than critical patching.
59:10 Abdullah Ollivierre: So. So that's something. Now another thing, when you're troubleshooting a certain computer and why is it not getting? Maybe I have 100 computers. All of them are getting the policy, except maybe a few computers that are not getting the policy or not getting the updates. Then you can come in here as well and click on view configured update policies right here and you can see what update policies are being pushed down to this device.
59:33 Abdullah Ollivierre: Right there. So that's another another place to look for when you're doing your troubleshooting on these specific odd devices that are not getting the updates. And sometimes we have to troubleshoot the device further to an extent that we'll sometimes we might have just to completely reinstall Windows.
59:50 Darren Walker: I know, I know. Then there's so many times.
59:52 Abdullah Ollivierre: You know exactly, and and it does fix problems. You know, sometimes that you know reinstalling windows. Yeah, it fix the problems. And. And you're like, well, you know, I I I I wish I I I reinstalled windows from from the beginning but but and sometimes it's just a simple thing you know. But today these are the policies that you have on your group policy that are targeting this specific OU right here now the more we clean up this on you and the more we ensure that we are targeting what we truly need to target in this OU.
01:00:25 Abdullah Ollivierre: The better we are in our reporting and our policy troubleshooting because as I said, you know, group policy troubleshooting is is challenging enough because it's a one way channel. You send it and you never know sometimes unless you know of course in your case you have the ECS on your side. So you can definitely use that as a reporting mechanism. There's a lot of good reports in the WSUS management console here. So under reports right there you can.
01:00:54 Abdullah Ollivierre: I definitely take a moment and just go through some of these reports that really helpful. It can show you detailed reports, status reports, things like that. But again, those reports may not be. Exactly. Accurate as it today until we do a full clean up on the AD. But the but based on what you said, we can definitely go ahead and and clean up those Windows 7, Windows XP devices at least at least disable them and isolate them in a separate OU for now.
01:01:21 Darren Walker: Yeah, definitely. We can put it in that workstation disabled or you.
01:01:24 Abdullah Ollivierre: Pretty much, yeah. At least we're not. We're not having to, you know, overwork the group policy. Right. And say, hey, group policy go to these hundred devices that don't don't exist anymore.
01:01:36 Darren Walker: Yes.
01:01:36 Abdullah Ollivierre: Alright, exactly so.
01:01:38 Darren Walker: One other thing. So on WSS server, do we have to check or do any settings to get new updates or does it automatically get updates and delete all updates that are not needed from the server? Do we have to do it manually?
01:01:55 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, I know that's that's a good question. My understanding is it's it's pretty it's it is automated. Let's actually take a look at. Right there, updates.
01:02:11 Darren Walker: Thing, it's an options maybe.
01:02:15 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. So action.
01:02:17 Darren Walker: And the water. Options.
01:02:20 Abdullah Ollivierre: Options. Yeah, update source. What's your source, right?
01:02:26 Darren Walker: Those are the cancellation is there.
01:02:30 Abdullah Ollivierre: Do you want the source to be Microsoft updates?
01:02:30 Darren Walker: Yes, please.
01:02:32 Abdullah Ollivierre: So right there, that's your source. So. So basically what this means humans. So synchronize for Microsoft update, right? What this means is. If you have an unmanaged computer like today, if you go to Best Buy or Staples or Amazon or eBay, if you buy computer, that's that's not managed, right?
01:02:50 Darren Walker: Just give me one second. Sorry. Yeah.
01:02:53 Abdullah Ollivierre: No worries.
01:03:55 Darren Walker: Yes, sorry.
01:03:57 Abdullah Ollivierre: No worries, no worries man. So so basically today, if you have unmanaged devices, they would go directly to Microsoft servers for updates, right?
01:04:06 Darren Walker: Yes.
01:04:06 Abdullah Ollivierre: And and this is what this means. So what the what? The update source you have synchronized from Microsoft update and that's exactly where where the source of updates are coming from. They're directly coming from the Microsoft update servers and then using the WSUS capabilities management colleges, you can control the flow of water. Essentially you can control.
01:04:28 Darren Walker: Yes. What do you have to manage something I mean. That we so this will download all the updates, right? The.
01:04:37 Abdullah Ollivierre: Pretty much yes. It will sing it will. It will be exactly up to date with Microsoft updates.
01:04:41 Darren Walker: But we have to manage something that we need. This quality updates are we don't have to install the previews or those things as well, right?
01:04:50 Abdullah Ollivierre: You can you can definitely manage that. Absolutely. Absolutely. She's take a look at the schedule. So it's the synchronization schedule is automatic and synchronization per day. So does one sync per day. From Microsoft update so so it basically your WSS server will check with Microsoft update servers at least once at least once a day. Up to one once, once a day. So basically every day it will sync automatically at least once with the with with the with the windows with the Microsoft update servers and so from here you can. I check you have your KDH workstations right there. And. Those are the updates. Updates needed six. Most likely this one here is. For the most part, you have Windows 10. Uh Pro, which is which is important, of course, all updates.
01:05:58 Abdullah Ollivierre: Well, here's another one for you server cleanup wizard, you can use server cleanup to free up all the computers, updates and updates for us from your server. Uh, so in something else, so I'm unused updates, computers not contacting the server. Ohh that's in. That's a that's a useful one right here. You can go through the screen up wizard to clean up anything that is not. And that's and the reason they Microsoft includes that here. I think it's the best practice to ensure that the 80 is clean right as much as possible from.
01:06:27 Darren Walker: But this is not a D, right? It's it is just creating a cleaning day updates that are on a WSS server that are being stuck that for example.
01:06:39 Abdullah Ollivierre: Umm
01:06:44 Darren Walker: 2181 update it is trying to connect the 10 workstations but the three workstations are disabled or not. They are not able to connect so that update will still be there on the WSS server and it is trying to connect by connect and it so with this it will clean the 21H1 update from the server is itself right WSUS server.
01:07:03 Abdullah Ollivierre: Correct that with the first option. Yes, you are correct with the second option right here it will. It will actually delete the actual computer itself as well. So with the first option it will delete those old updates that like 21 each one or something. But with this one here it will also delete the computer itself. This if you check this option right here.
01:07:23 Darren Walker: So can we?
01:07:25 Abdullah Ollivierre: So yeah, we can we can, we can use that. But as I said, you know if you wanna be extra careful before you delete them, I would say let's make sure we go through this report and disable what we need to disable like we you know, we can definitely consider this option right here once we are caught up. Once we are caught up to what we truly need. But but at this point I don't recommend using it right off the bat before making sure that we have an accurate number on the Windows 10 workstations at least. And then and then once you have an accurate number, say OK, whatever in the last 30 days that have not contacted my my WUS server, I'll just delete it.
01:08:04 Darren Walker: OK.
01:08:04 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, exactly. Once, once you're caught up and you have these these regular monthly or quarterly whatever. Audits and reviews on the on the environment. But then, you know, going back to here, you can troubleshoot connection issues, synchronization issues. Umm. Let's see here. Anything unapproved approved, declined. And then according to this you have 121. So it's different numbers and different places. It's not, you know. You know, it's not. It's not a systematic or it's not a bug in the system that is reporting, you know, inconsistent numbers are different numbers. It's just the fact that. The computer, you know, it's just due to the different. Different statuses, right? It's just the where where the computer is it's it's but but the numbers are.
01:08:53 Abdullah Ollivierre: Are are are you know? Are based on on what the server can and can't see. It's not necessarily a bug in the system, it's just mean sometimes going to the ADC numbers and you got come to WSS, you'll see different numbers for computers because obviously it's based on what the WCSS can see. Obviously the domain controller can will have a lot more computers to report on it, especially if it's there's any stale devices and things like that. So you might find differences in the numbers between the.
01:09:26 Abdullah Ollivierre: AD server and the WSS server which which makes perfect sense because not all computers may be. Uh. Managed by WSS, right? And so it's just it's just different. Two different management portals or buckets. But yeah, I mean we can, we can definitely look more into your. WSU S reporting rollups approvals. Default approval rules, so you just have the default role there. Config wizard right here. Uh, we can go through that and. And see, uh, we have of course our downstream servers. Nothing there. Right there, we have OK servers and workstations. Servers you definitely want to keep your servers up to date.
01:10:16 Darren Walker: Yeah.
01:10:17 Abdullah Ollivierre: That those those are easy ones because they're always online, they're 24/7 online and.
01:10:23 Darren Walker: Yes, but the issue with the servers is if we get a some updates that might break. Few things right with the servers.
01:10:31 Darren Walker: Workstations are not that much worried about. We can reinstall the workstation. It's easier, but for the servers it is much complicated.
01:10:39 Abdullah Ollivierre: Gotcha. Gotcha. By the way, do you still have any server 2003 in your room environment or?
01:10:43 Darren Walker: I don't think so. Can we click and see which which are those?
01:10:46 Abdullah Ollivierre: So these are the 13 source right there. So. I don't think so. Here's another opportunity for clean up that we can look at and potentially also run that script and.
01:10:59 Darren Walker: Yeah.
01:11:00 Abdullah Ollivierre: And you know the.
01:11:02 Darren Walker: So except Katie age or three, Finn, I think. Without that, we can accept that we can delete all of them.
01:11:12 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah, because the this one, even this one last logon is 2021.
01:11:17 Darren Walker: Yeah.
01:11:18 Abdullah Ollivierre: So was created back in 2007 and last logon is 2021, so that might be. Something I don't know. Yeah, but we we we we can double check, but yeah.
01:11:28 Darren Walker: Yeah.
01:11:29 Abdullah Ollivierre: But as I said, you know, if you wanna. If you wanna, if you wanna let me know about.
01:11:34 Darren Walker: And there might be. Where are these servers located? I mean in there? They are in the service. Uh, which OU? Can we see the US as well?
01:11:43 Abdullah Ollivierre: The container, yes. So right there a member servers.
01:11:46 Darren Walker: OK.
01:11:47 Abdullah Ollivierre: Yeah. Yeah. So I think, I think if you if you wanna also take a look at the report as well as I said, you know, it's not just, you know, I know it's a, it's a, it's an involved exercise, but it's not just and you know that's why we're having this discussion and looking at these reports just to look at the Windows 7, Windows XP and and also you know, potentially clean up servers and users as well. But yeah.
01:12:11 Abdullah Ollivierre: Uh. Good. No, that that was a good call. Human. I know you're busy. I don't want to take too much of your time, but but maybe I will. Maybe I'll respond back to the e-mail as well with the, with the, the highlight some of the points that we have we discussed today and then we can go from there.
01:12:33 Abdullah Ollivierre: Hello. No. I see.
01:13:40 Abdullah Ollivierre: Hello. Hello. Hello.
  